this is the new nothing cmf phone one
and I don't say this very often but I
think this is a genius product cmf is a
new budget sub brand of the company
nothing so we're talking a phone that
costs £200 or $250 and it's it's
actually a little bit crazy what these
guys have just pulled off for that price
I mean the first thing you notice is
this doesn't feel like just a single
product launch this is an entire
ecosystem and it's a really fascinating
one so let's get the phone out first
there's a lanyard which is not something
you tend to see launch with the one case
two cases no three cases a card wallet I
guess that's for the back of the phone
there's a stand the buds Pro two and
then the watch Pro two and it all feels
very new because we've seen plenty of
budget phones before but what you don't
often get is a budget accessory
ecosystem like this all designed to work
specifically around that budget phone as
the centerpiece everything has well on
one hand a slightly cheap thin plasticky
feel to it but then on the other hand
it's all really Tastefully designed it
kind of feels like all of these products
have had high-end thought and Care put
into them even if the physical materials
in the Finish are more basic so like
these are the cmf buds 2 Pro and even
though they're very light and clearly
not a luxury item they still feel
sophisticated and intentional in their
design not like a cheap version of
something that the company would rather
you buy and then the watch Pro two mhm
yeah it's slick clean you never want a
watch to go too crazy on design cuz then
it won't match your outfits so this
feels like a pretty appropriate level to
me right let's get into this phone it's
a thin package so we all know what that
means okay so the device is on top and
below that is a generic white USB C Toc
cable which you should be able to use to
transfer everything from your old phone
and then an orange Sim ejector right
heel
[Music]
time and right off the bat it's pretty
clear that this is not your normal phone
and it's it's not just that it looks
different cuz you know these cases that
I showed you these are actually back
plates so if you look inside the
packaging they came in you'll see a
bunch of other stuff like this tool
which is both a Sim ejector and a
screwdriver that allows you to take off
these four screws on the back of your
phone after which you unwind this
circular piece and your plate pops off
and this is a pretty big deal for a
number of reasons one that repairing
this phone is going to be a lot easier
and I hope cheaper than almost any other
phone but that part's not confirmed two
that you don't need a case anymore you
can actually use your phone naked guilt
free knowing that if you ever do do
something stupid you can just swap the
back plate out for I it's not even that
much money £29 is what they're charging
for these kits including the tools the
third thing is it means you can mix and
match so I really like this orange back
it swaps out the slightly cheap feeling
very scratchable plastic for a more
grippy less scratchable vegan leather
type finish and it's bright orange so
let's put it on but then I'm looking at
the orange SIM tray the orange circle
screw thing and the silver screws that
come with it I'm thinking silver screws
are pretty nice but for the other parts
I think I prefer the black ones so I
have just created my own twoone finish
on my phone and that's actually sick but
the best part of this is that nothing
has actually gone one step further to
actually create an ecosystem around
these weird screws and I don't even know
what to call this from now on this is
the Circle spinny thing so if I want a
phone stand for example unscrew your
circle spinny thing and screw the stand
in and yeah the stand itself isn't
anything particularly special it's not
breaking new grounds in Material Science
but if you decided that you want a phone
stand then what better way to have a
phone stand that doesn't need you to
apply a sticky pad onto your case but
instead physically screws into your
device itself it feels way more secure
and also way more intentional like your
stand was designed specifically for your
phone you want a lanyard say thing and I
feel very confident that it's going to
support the phone because it's bolted to
it or like there's no magsafe wireless
charging baked into this phone right you
can't just slap one of those apple
wallets onto the back of this and expect
it to hold but screw this cmf wallet
enclosure in like this that's very
secure and now you have your magnet to
be able to attach your wallet on top of
and this thing can hold like three cards
this whole thing reminds me very much of
a mentality that I discovered in India
it's called jugad it means uh Frugal
Innovation inventive ways to use what
you have to achieve things that would
normally require more resources because
just by properly thinking this through
before building it this company has
genuinely achieved a really high level
of functionality without making it cost
them anymore to build this thing you're
actually getting something here that you
can't get just by paying through the
nose for a higher-end device like
nothing has manage to make something
that gives their $250 phone a tangible
leg up over my $1200 $1 phone and that
is absolutely amazing my mind is kind of
woring at the possibilities like I'm
just thinking as an example what if you
use this screw and this screw to add a
permanent lens attachment to your
cameras you know instead of those ones
that you have to clip on and anything
more than a light Breeze will remove for
you now I would personally be a little
bit worried about things getting inside
they have managed to get an ipx2 rating
which is basically very minor water
protection and nothing for dust and I
think it's somewhat telling that that's
the max rating they could get because
yeah anything designed to be taken apart
this easily is obviously not
particularly well sealed and also as
cool as the circle spinny thing is I do
find it a little bit uncomfortable just
because it sticks out but let me be very
clear all in all for the price this is
one of the best designed phones I've
ever seen which I'm only half surprised
by because the entire name of this sub
brand cmf very literally stands for
colors materials and finish it's
actually the rest of the phone that
surprised me more so let's talk about it
if you're winning with design at
$250 then where are you losing well it's
not the screen this is a 120 HZ adaptive
AMOLED full HD Plus display it's very
smooth it's sharp it's punchy this thing
can display HDR 10 plus content which is
a luxury that you could only get by
paying over $11,000 like literally 2
years ago they've pre-installed a screen
protector which I always rate and this
right here is an indisplay optical
fingerprint scanner which is well it's
fine it works even the brightness which
is one of the first things to go is
actually pretty good the company's
advertising a 2,000 nit Peak brightness
but you'd only achieve that in very very
specific situations more typically this
thing can go up to a Max of 700 nits in
normal brightness and then 1,00 nits in
ultra bright outdoor environments which
means that in the absolute worst worst
case scenarios you might have to squint
a little bit but you'll pretty much
never struggle to see it the only thing
I would complain about and I am being
quite nitpicky here but the bottom bezel
is slightly thicker than the other
bezels and this is particularly
interesting because I remember having a
convers ation with KL pay the CEO when
he launched the nothing phone 2 he was
basically explaining how much extra
effort cost and Engineering is required
to just push this bottom lip down a tiny
little bit to even it all out and he
made the decision to still do that on
those more expensive nothing phones but
now we're looking at a phone which is
basically half of that cost I guess he's
decided to let some of those design
ideologies slip a little bit Fair
compromise though I still can't think of
a better screen than this for $250 so
surely you compromise on battery
then no the phone has a 5,000 Mah cell
the chip is actually based on the very
efficient 4 anim process the software
skin is very light no thanks to the
thousands of apps I've installed on top
of it and I also noticed they set the
phone to dark mode by default with all
black icons which is good because this
AMOLED display will turn off anywhere
it's displaying black pixels to the
point where there is no doubt in my mind
that I will be gracefully carried
through the day by this thing like if I
just pull up my battery settings now
it's saying I've had 4 hours of screen
on time and I'm still on 60% battery so
I'm currently on track for this thing
lasting 10 hours of screen on time on
this charge which am I ever going to
need more than that only weird thing is
even though the phone is stupidly easy
to take apart you still can't actually
swap the battery out yourself if you
decided that your existing one is
getting old which feels like a missed
opportunity to me and the charging
situation is okay there's no wireless
charging and the wire charging is up to
a pretty mediocre 33 Watts but since you
don't get the charging brick to achieve
that wattage I imagine most people will
be operating under that but the
important thing is the battery life and
the battery life they have nailed and
you're not compromising with the
software either this phone runs nothing
OS 2.6 based on Android 14 and I love
this software skin it's light it doesn't
interfere too much with what stock
Android already does well but where it
does its little thoughtful things to
either make your phone more aesthetic or
make it it less distracting there's an
AI generator tool for wallpapers which
is quite Limited in options it would be
nice if you could at least specify the
color you wanted but equally it does
churn out reliably good results they
never seem to look too AI generated if
you know what I mean and you're getting
that with 2 years of major Android
updates and 3 years of security updates
which is no doubt a big part of where
money is saved compared to the more
expensive nothing phone 2 for example
it's not a bad level of support it's
pretty standard at this tier it's just
it's nothing spectacular but it's the
chip in inside this phone that for me
was the biggest wild card I had no idea
what to expect the phone's got 6 GB of
RAM on the base model and 128 gigs of
storage interestingly expandable storage
with up to a 2 TB SD card and it's
paired with a mediatech chipset the
dimensity 7300 and the reason that I
didn't know what to expect is well at
least on paper the dimensity 7300 is
actually less powerful than the 7200
which someone please explain the math to
me but anyway this is what that looks
like in practice so this is the latest
game from hooe the company who made
genin impact and providing I'm on game
mode which you can access by just
swiping in from the left I can play it
at a pretty acceptable frame rate
hovering at mostly High settings but
even though there is a liquid calling
system on the inside I have noticed the
performance declining with prolonged
gaming so if I don't want it to get
laggier then I'll get a more stable
experience if I go down to medium
settings so if you factor in that this
is as demanding as mobile games get then
there isn't anything that you won't be
able to play but you will have to make
noticeable compromises to how some games
look and on a day-to-day basis it
doesn't feel slow but it also doesn't
feel particularly fast the phone is
mostly smooth with the occasional Jitter
every now and again but the thing that I
notice more is every time you click
something or open an app or try to load
something it takes just a little bit at
a time it's not like you're waiting
around but there's just a fraction of
thinking time with each action would I
have expected anything different for a
phone at this
price no not really it's actually just
that most of the phone is so good that
it makes you forget how much it costs
and I'm actually in my mind benchmarking
it against much more expensive devices
audio is probably the most obvious
downgrade I noticed it's just a very
simple mono speaker at the bottom you
don't get any kind of stereo effect
using the earpiece as a second speaker
and you lose a little bit of the
sophistication of your music when
listening through it but I also wouldn't
go as far as to say that it's a bad
speaker and it is actually rather loud
so then what this really came down to
for me was the cameras if nothing
managed to do all of what they've done
and also smash it with the cameras then
this thing was going straight to the
Hall of Fame but equally this is where I
was expecting a big noticeable dip in
the phone experience so I slowly
approached that camera button fully
ready to lose a chunk of respect for
this device but do you know what these
mad Lads have kind of done it so the
phone has two cameras but it's a little
bit of a weird one because the top
camera is actually just an assist camera
you can hold your finger over it and
still perform basically every single
function of your phone's camera the only
thing that you can't do without it is
add the portrait mode effect to your
shots so if I take this photo while
covering the lens it'll look like this
if I take the same photo after having
removed my finger it will look like this
what do those photos look like well very
nicely detailed you have plenty of room
to zoom in further and they will still
look sharp the wide aperture and decent
sensor size gets you some nice
foreground background separation and
mostly Flawless High dynamic range I say
mostly just because it's absolutely
spot-on for Big scenes where there's an
Overexposed sky but it often misses the
small things like a bright light bulb in
your shot that needs controlling and you
know what the video has no right to look
this decent the phone shoots 4K footage
at 30 frames per second and it doesn't
feel particularly noisy which you might
expect it to since this phone's chip
doesn't have the best image signal
processor it doesn't feel massively
unstable which you might expected to
given that this camera has no Optical
image stabilization and the focusing
isn't jittery which you might expect it
to given that there's no laser autofocus
or anything close to it the hardware of
these cameras is nothing special for the
price but it's the attention to fine
tuning what is there that's the reason
that you can record footage like this
now for me there are four things that I
felt have been a bit lacking the color
science is perfectly fine with most
flowers and objects but it's faces that
it really struggles with it's not
abysmal but side by side with a top end
phone it becomes very clear how much of
that super intelligent fine-tuning that
you might have come to expect that
you're missing out on portraits which
feel pretty fine in isolation but again
next to a top end phone it doesn't take
a detective to see the subtle nuances
being lost the zooming experience is
pretty bad the fact that there's no
dedicated zoom camera combined with the
lack of AI intelligence to know what to
do without it means that zooming in 10
times here really does feel like you
just took a photo at one times and blew
it up 10 times it's not pretty and then
finally there's no Ultra wide camera and
I can I can kind of see why because
obviously not going to have a lot of
spare budget to add in a good one and so
adding in a cheap one just for the sake
of it might make the overall camera feel
worse but it is still a lacking feature
the key thing to bear in mind though is
compare this camera to any phone in its
own price range and I would say it's at
least as good I just want to make it
clear what you're not getting so the
long and short of it is the cmf phone 1
is maybe the most instantly
recommendable phone I have ever used
we've seen this formula before company
launches a new sub brand company wants
to generate hyp for that sub brand so
company makes the first offering in that
sub brand particularly generous point
being it might not stay this way but
that doesn't change the fact but for
what this is right now at this price it
feels like a complete steal to me